docs: write a why accessibility document (#81)
seedcase-project/decisions: why-accessibility.qmd

---

> title: "Why make Seedcase accessible to everyone"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Why accessible design"
```

Just to match the style of the other decision posts.

> description: "We want to make the Seedcase project as accessible as possible for all potential users. This includes both the website and the applications"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "We want to make the Seedcase project as accessible as possible for all potential users. This includes both the website and the applications."
```

> date: "11-06-2024"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: "2024-06-11"
```
To follow ISO8601 format 😋

categories: 
- accessibility
- development
- documentation
- implementation
- software
- standardisation
---

> # Why make Seedcase accessible to everyone
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This isn't necessary, nor matches the other posts.

::: content-hidden
Use other decision posts as inspiration to writing these. Leave the
content-hidden sections in the text for future reference.
:::

## Context and problem statement

::: content-hidden
State the context and some background on the issue, then write a
statement in the form of a question for the problem.
:::

It is important for all websites to be accessible to everyone. This
includes people with disabilities, people who are older, people who are
not native speakers of the language, and people who are not familiar
with technology. The Seedcase project is no exception. We want to make
the Seedcase project as accessible as possible for all potential users.
This includes both the website and the applications. The question is:

> How to make Seedcase accessible to everyone?

## Decision drivers

::: content-hidden
List some reasons for why we need to make this decision and what things
have arisen that impact work.
:::

> As we are getting closer to having our first working prototype, we need
> to ensure that a multitude of users will be able to work with it. At

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want
to ensure that a multitude of users will be able to work with our software and interact with our documentation. At
```

first this was a question of ensuring that our colour scheme was

> accessible to people with colour blindness, this in turn lead us to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accessible to people with colour blindness, which in turn lead us to
```

consider other accessibility issues. We want to ensure that the Seedcase

> project is as inclusive as possible, and that everyone can use it. This

Reviewer: Small edit to @signekb edit to say "as many users as possible"

is also a requirement for the Seedcase project to be successful in the
long term.

## Considered options

::: content-hidden
List and describe some of the options, as well as some of the benefits
and drawbacks for each option.
:::

There are a number of ways of looking at accessibility, the most common
are accessible content, and visual accessibility. In Seedcase we will
work with both.

### Accessible content

Accessible content is content that is easy to understand and use for
everyone. Things like accessible naming, and using a polite setting for
the hidden text. Ensuring that the language isn't too technical or
complex, and that pictures and potential audio/visual content is
described in a way that is compatible with screen readers.

Things to check for during development:

-   is the text to complex?
-   is the language too technical?
-   are the images described in a way that is compatible with screen
    readers?
-   are the buttons and links named in a way that is easy to understand?
-   are the interactive elements easy to navigate with a keyboard?
-   are any landmarks or headings used to help with navigation easy to

>     follow?

Author: I've edited. It seems that you can (if you apply yourself) manage to make a screen reader jump around on the pages if you force an order for the landmarks/headings.

-   if we end up making videos or audio content, is there a transcript
    available?

### Visual accessibility

> Visual accessibility is about making sure that the website and the apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visual accessibility is about making sure that websites and apps
```

are easy to use for people with visual impairments. This includes things
like ensuring that the colour scheme is accessible to people with colour

> blindness, and that the text is easy to read. It also includes things

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
blindness, and that the text is easy to see. It also includes things
```
Thought "easy to read" could also refer to complexity as described in the section above.

> like ensuring that the website and the apps are easy to navigate, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
like ensuring that our websites and apps are easy to navigate, and
```

that the buttons are easy to click on.

Things to check for during development:

-   is the colour scheme accessible to people with colour blindness?

> -   is the colour ration between text and background high enough

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   is the colour ratio between text and background high enough
```

    (minimum 4.5:1)?
-   is the text easy to read (large enough font)?
-   is the line length suitable (between 45 and 75 char)?

> -   are the icons easy to decipher?

Reviewer 2: Again: could you elaborate? What makes an icon easy to decipher? :)

Author: sometimes designers make up their own icons for things that already have an established icon, like using a page and not a pencil for edit. Does the sentence make sense now?

> -   are the buttons easy to click on (tap-target a minimum of 44x44 px)?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   are the buttons easy to click, sizewise, with a tap-target a minimum of 44x44 px?
```

-   are the interactive states easy to see (default, focus/hover,

>     active/pressed, de-active)?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    active/pressed, deactivated)?
```

## Decision outcome

::: content-hidden
What decision was made, use the form "We decided on CHOICE because of
REASONS."
:::

We decided to work on both accessible content and visual accessibility.

> Some of the points highlighted above are things we will need to keep an
> eye out for (like text complexity), others are some that we will be able

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the points highlighted above are things we will need to pay attention to (like text complexity), others are some that we will be able
```

to incorporate into our development process (like ensuring that the
colour scheme is accessible to people with colour blindness, and that

> buttons have the correct contrast ratio).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
buttons have an accessible contrast ratio).
```

There are numerous ways to test for accessibility, and we will need to
ensure that we have a good testing plan in place. This will at present
be a semi-manual process, the details of which are described in the
[Accessibility testing

> plan](!--TODO%20insert%20link%20to%20plan%20once%20written--).

Reviewer 2: You could create an issue about this an link it here?

### Consequences

::: content-hidden
List some potential consequences of this decision.
:::

One consequence of this decision is that we will need to spend more time
on development, which will cost more in terms of time and money. Another
consequence is that we will need to spend more time on testing, which
will also cost more in terms of time and money.

However, the consequences of not working on accessibility will
potentially be that our product can't be used by a percentage of our

> potential users. This will limit the potential of the Seedcase project,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
potential users. This will limit the potential of the Seedcase Project,
```

> and could potentially lead to a failure of the project. By working on

Reviewer 2: Could this be "softened" a bit? I think sounds a bit harsh, maybe?

Author: I took a sentence out, did that help?

> accessibility we will ensure that the Seedcase project is as inclusive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
accessibility, we aim to make the Seedcase Project is as inclusive
```

> as possible, and that everyone can use it. This will increase the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as possible. This will increase the
```

> as possible, and that everyone can use it. This will increase the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as possible, and that everyone can use it. This is not only in line with our values, it will also increase the
```

> potential of the Seedcase project, and will make it more likely to be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
potential of the Seedcase Project, and will make it more likely to be
```
